THE SKA AIRLINES VERSIONS AND APPLICATION DEVELOPMENTS ✈️🛠️

SKA Airlines ✈️ Application Changelog 🛠️

The latest version is always the newest ✨; airline0 is old 📦, and airline1 is newer than airline0 🆕.

For reference, the last version has all the most recent updates ⏩.

airline3: Up to the index page, changes are applied there 📄.

airline4: Up to the index page, with updates to ticket_index for guest users 🧑🦱👤.

The file routes.py manages HTML routes 📂, and common .py files are used throughout the website 💻.

Airline v4 🛩️
Data now retrieves from DB tables in the right places 📊, such as routes_html.py inside the needed module.

Progressed up to the airport_fare section 🏷️.

Version 7 ✅
Added plane quota feature 🛬 when adding a new plane; tracking capacity is much easier now! 🤓

Version 8 🔐
Implemented new user registration with error flashes 🚦 when users try to register duplicates or refresh the page.

Checked pages for flash messages: Whenever you add things like airports or fares, you get an alert ⚠️ for duplicates.

If the endpoint is user_register_success.html and the page is reloaded, you’re redirected 🔄 to the homepage with an error, preventing duplicate DB entries 🙅♂️.

Version 9 🧪
All guest-related index functions completed, with tests 🎯, ticket index, and user feedback included 💌.

If flights for a chosen origin-destination pair don’t exist, there’s an alert popup 🚨.

Fixed journey date logic 📅: now the return date can't be before the journey date 🕓.

User-side reservation is paused 🛑, while admin-side implementation is underway 🛠️.

Version 10 🐍
Shared data for HTML pages is now passed centrally through Python routes ⚙️, no more repetitive transfer.

Fares automatically update ⬆️, and all passenger names are shown in uppercase 🔠.

Version 11 📱
Admin-side booking features auto-assign seat numbers based on class selection 🚥 by Python code—all logic, zero SQL!

All tickets and tables now use a responsive design 📲.

Added user number at reservation time; registered users can re-download their ticket from the portal 🔃.

Version 12 🎯
Refined application responsiveness: focus is now on downloading tickets instead of printing 🖨️➡️💾.

UI and fare logic now support roundtrips: base fare is doubled (base_fare*2) ⏩, and dynamic updates are clearly visible!

Fixed issues with previous double-calculation logic; updates now show live 🔄.

Version 13 👨💼
Admin entering a username now reveals the user number instantly 👀.

Developed almost all admin features, including a robust PNR enquiry/audit system 🔍 for all bookings.

Admin and user booking histories are linked 📈; also added textbox for country code when adding new airports 🌏.

Version 14 📆
If the journey date is reached, journey status updates to “completed” automatically ✅.

When booking is "In Progress," the status is set to “IP” instantly ⚡.

Cancelled tickets are clearly flagged 🚩. Event handlers with SQL keep everything up to date.

Plane schedules are available to all users 👥, and entering a plane number instantly reveals the plane name 🛫.

Version 15 📲
Built PNR index module; user index page is now mobile-friendly 📱.

Plane schedule and PNR index pages are shared between main user and index pages 🔗.

When downloading tickets, each user only sees their own—privacy protected! 🔒

Version 16 🏦
Fully developed the Bank Gateway 💳 integrated with User Ticket Booking 🎫 with proper logic and data flow.

Implemented up to user ticket download 💾.

Version 17 ⚠️
Added caution alerts 🚨 for users and admin when entering the user name during booking.

Developed User Journey History tracking 📜: routes from index -> user_journey_history.py -> user -> user_journey_history_su.html -> user_journey_history1.py -> user_ticket_download_su.html

Used session management to ensure data is accessed only for the particular user 🔒.

Version 18 ❌🎟️
Developed fully user cancellable tickets with Bank Gateway integration 🔄🏦.

Reduced separate views for user to download CNF (confirmed) or CAN (canceled) tickets with all journey statuses.

Removed the old ticket download module 🔥 (no need to enter user PNR again).

Users can select a group of CNF, CAN, or both from the list for easy download 📥.

Version 19 🗣️📱
Developed User Feedback module 📝 and enhanced user mobile update 📲.

Version 20 🔑🔄
Developed User Password Update Module 🔐.

Improved some code usability and maintainability 🛠️.

Version 21 ⚠️🧾
Developed Admin Cancellation Ticket Module 🛑 but pending payment mode handling.

Problem: Admin booked tickets without bank account details cause issues on cancellation (empty account info).

Planned: Added module to require account number at admin booking or cancellation time (mandatory if digital payments involved) 💳.

Version 22 💸
Completed Admin side cancellation with payment types: Cash and Digital Payment 💵📲.

Pending: Dynamic linking of account user number and name.

Version 23 🧾💻
Developed full Admin cancel ticket module with automatic fetching of user account number and name in Python code 🤖.

Added JavaScript logic for both user and admin sides to display ticket details dynamically:

For CAN tickets ➡️ show cancellation fare info 🔴

For CNF tickets ➡️ show confirmed details only ✅

Reduced extra code for cancellation ticket handling 🎉.

Version 24 📅💻
Developed date handling completely in Python code (not HTML forms) 📆🖥️.

Reduced ticket download modules by unifying CNF and CAN ticket handling using JavaScript visibility toggles (hide empty cancellation details) 👻👁️.

Enhanced:

Admin side feedback control with deletion on selection 🗑️

Maintained accurate Airline Fund Details 💰 for SKA Airlines.

Improved code layout and structure for better maintenance 🧹.

Version 25 🪑
Focused on seat availability based on user/admin seat selection 🎟️🛋️.

Created seats_avl.py in admin folder, shared with admin, user, and guest.

Used JSON + MySQL join queries for realistic seat booking and layout visualization 🎨.

Version 26 🔄
Added submodule to check/modify flight search details on the same page 👨💻👩💻 for admin and guest users.

Enables quick rechecking with different plane classes, dates, and fares without page reload 💨.

Version 27 🔢
Developed seat number auto-allocation based on flight_number, flight_class, with seat resets upon reaching max seats 🔄 seats reset.

Version 28 🔎🪑
Improved seat allocation trigger considering flight_number, flight_class, and journey date (jd).

Example:

Flight: AA12AA, Class: First, JD: 15/Sep/2024 → Seat: 1A

Flight: AA12AA, Class: First, JD: 16/Sep/2024 → Seat: 1A

Flight: AA12AA, Class: First, JD: 15/Sep/2024 (next seat) → Seat: 1B

Allocation dynamically resets per flight, class, and journey date.

Attempted integration: linked SKA Airlines to SKA Bank at admin ticket booking time only.

User-side ticket booking and cancellation fully linked with bank gateway 🏦.

Admin side ticket cancellation done ✅, but booking-side bank account detail input is optional.

Fund increments to SKA Airlines bank account (account 106) handled if provided.

Version 29 💾🔒
Backed up and inserted all transactions into bank-side database with full control and auditing 🔐.

Issue noted: Cancelling single passenger tickets works, but multiple passenger reservation ticket cancellations fail ❗.

Version 30 🚀🔥 (Most Important Version!)
Solved all previous issues; implemented correct seat allocation trigger for cancelled seats → seats freed up as available based on flight number, journey date, and flight class 🪑✅.

Fixed issue where only single tickets could be cancelled, now multiple ticket cancellations work smoothly 🎉.

Bug fix: replaced cursor.fetchone() with cursor.fetchall() for multiple records handling 🐛🐞.

Added "Number of Passengers" display in public PNR status 🧑🤝🧑.

Fixed user journey history to accurately show confirmed, canceled, and all statuses 📜.

Removed problematic submodule showing user numbers on admin side during booking — avoiding counter ticket confusion 🚫.

Implemented counter ticket cancellation logic: tickets booked by admin must be cancelled only on admin side as counter tickets ⚠️.

Added "All rights reserved" notices on specified pages ©️.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

✅ PHASE 1: Previously Completed Modules (Theoretical Summary) 🚀✈️

1. Multi-Step Ticket Booking System 🛫🛬 (Admin & User Side)
Goal: Seamlessly streamline flight ticket booking across multiple pages for a smooth user experience.

ticket_admin1.html ✈️: Captures initial booking inputs like flight number, origin 🏙️, destination 🌍, and dates 📅.

ticket_admin2.html 🎟️: Selects travel class (Economy, Business), quota type 🎫 (e.g., Senior, Student), trip type (One-way/Round-trip 🔄), and number of passengers 👨👩👦👦.

ticket_admin3.html 👤: Collects passenger details — name, age 🎂, gender 🚻, and more.

ticket_admin_final.html 📋: Displays a comprehensive booking summary for final confirmation ✔️.

Note: Sessions 🔄 seamlessly carry data across pages, ensuring no details are lost during the booking flow!

2. Fare Calculation System 💸🧮
Goal: Dynamically calculate ticket fares based on smart business logic.

Base Fare: Standard flight fare 🎫.

Class Fare: Additional charge based on travel class 🛍️ (e.g., Economy, Business).

Quota Discounts: Special discounts 🏷️ for categories like seniors 👵, students 🎓.

Trip Discounts: Extra savings for round trips 🔄.

Real-time fare updates powered by JavaScript ⚡ keep passengers informed as they add travelers or change selections — no page reloads needed!

3. Seat Allocation Logic 🪑✨
Goal: Automate seat assignment for every booking to maximize efficiency.

Seats stored in airline_sitting table 📊, e.g., First Class seats from 1A to 3D.

Seats are assigned sequentially 🎯, looping or managing overflow smoothly when full.

Candidate for implementation via SQL triggers 🗃️ or Python logic 🐍 — both approaches explored depending on scalability & flexibility needs.

4. Ticket Cancellation Logic 🔄❌ (User/Admin)
Goal: Enable smooth ticket cancellation, seat freeing, and refund processing.

Cancellation forms available for both admin and users 🧑💼👤.

Upon cancellation:

Updates the reservation’s status field 🚦 (e.g., canceled).

Calculates and processes refund amount refund_Rs 💰.

Frees or flags the seat in the airline_sitting table for reuse ♻️.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

THE PHASE 2


✅ Phase 1 Recap — Locked & Completed
These are already implemented, tested, and finalized:

✔️ Feature	Details
Multi-Step Ticket Booking	Admin + User Booking Flow
Dynamic Fare Calculation (JS)	Class, Quota, Trip Mode based
Round Trip Fare Logic	Fare doubling + Return Date check
Seat Allocation Trigger	CNF/Seat assignment via Trigger
Seat Reuse Logic	Based on Flight No + JD/RD
Ticket Cancellation + Refund	Refund logic based on status/date
PDF Ticket + Cancel PDF	Using reportlab or fpdf
Admin Dashboard (Text)	CRUD, Search, Manage
Passenger Manifest	Based on PNR & Flight filter
Payment Simulation (Manual)	Form input only


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

🚀 PHASE 2 DEVELOPMENT PLAN
Unleashing dynamic, modern features for SKA Airlines! ✨

1. 🧾 QR Code Integration in Ticket PDFs
Purpose: Fast airport check-in & digital ticket verification—COMPLETED ✅

pip install qrcode[pil]           # QR Code generation

Libraries Used: qrcode, base64, reportlab/fpdf

QR Code Data Example:

json
{
  "PNR": "12345",
  "Passenger": "John Doe",
  "Flight No": "AI-202",
  "Seat": "2A",
  "Date": "2025-07-21"
}
Workflow:
Generate QR Code → Base64 encode → Embed in ticket PDF
Optionally preview QR in HTML before download 👀

2. 📧 Email Notification System
Purpose: Instantly update users via email on bookings and cancellations ✉️📤

When to Send:

On Booking ✅ (attach PDF ticket)

On Cancellation ❌ (with refund details or summary)

https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords to Generate the app password to use in the email system


Libraries & Install Commands:

text
pip install Flask flask-mail reportlab
Email Package: Flask-Mail (SMTP-based)

Session Management:

text
pip install Flask-Session
python
from flask_session import Session
app.config['SESSION_TYPE'] = 'filesystem'  # Or use 'redis', 'sqlalchemy'
Session(app)
To Do:

Configure mail server and authentication 🔑

Trigger email on ticket booking/cancellation events 📬

3. 💳 QR Code Payment Gateway (Simulated)
Purpose: Simulate secure payments with QR before final booking 💰

Sample QR Payment Data:

json
{
  "Amount": 5600,
  "Reference": "PNR-12345",
  "Payee": "SKA Airlines",
  "Timestamp": "2025-07-08 11:23:12"
}
Steps:

Show payment QR on page

Simulate “Payment Done” → Confirm booking

4. 📊 Graphical Admin Dashboard
Purpose: Bring insights to life with eye-catching visuals! 📈

Key Charts:

Bookings per Day 📅

Revenue per Flight/Class 💸

Cancellation vs Confirmed Trends 📊

Libraries:

Frontend: Chart.js, Plotly.js

Backend: Flask serves JSON endpoints

To Do:

Dashboard HTML

AJAX endpoints for live data

Note: Reservation funds visualization already implemented ✅

5. 🪄 Advanced Seat Allocation by Flight Type
Purpose: Automatically manage seat allocation by aircraft type 🚦

Features:

Flight types (Boeing, Airbus) + seat range config for FC, BC, PECO, ECO

Auto-assign seats according to chosen flight type ✈️

Implementation:

Add flight_type field in flights table

On selecting flight, auto-populate seat/class limits (JS or backend)

To Do:

Module: flight_type_seats.py

Embed logic in JS/frontend or backend

6. 🛠️ Common DB Configuration File
Purpose: Centralized & secure database connection 🔐

File: db_config.py

python
import mysql.connector
def get_connection():
    return mysql.connector.connect(
        host='localhost',
        user='root',
        password='tiger',
        database='airline'
    )
Usage:

python
from db_config import get_connection
Status: DONE ✅

7. 🔁 Dynamic Fare Calculation (From DB)
Purpose: No more hardcoded fares—fetch dynamically from DB 📂

Current: Static fare in HTML—OUTDATED 🚫

New: Calculate on backend from class, quota, base fare, origin, destination, distance

To Do:

Revise DB schema if needed

Implement logic to fetch accurate fare on every booking

Status: Successfully implemented! 🎉

8. 🧮 Admin Fare Update & Visualization
Purpose: Equip admin with powerful fare editing & analysis tools! 🛠️

Features:

Form-based UI: edit fares for class/km/origin-destination

Optional: auto-calculate fare increases by percentage

Action Items:

Fetch/update from fare_config table

Build responsive admin HTML page

9. 🌐 Dynamic IP Address / Domain Binding
Purpose: Make SKA Airlines accessible by domain name instead of raw IP 📲

Outcome: Users can reach the app at https://ska-airlines.com vs. http://xxx.xxx.xxx.xxx

Status: DONE ✅

10. ⏰ Enhanced Time Logic (Optional Future Step)
Purpose: Add robust Departure/Arrival Time management in booking system 🕰️

What’s Next?

Integrate time pickers in booking UI

Use backend logic to ensure valid, timezone-aware times


Installations Required 

pip install qrcode[pil]           # QR Code generation
pip install Flask flask-mail      # Email sending
pip install Flask-Session         # Session management
pip install reportlab             # PDF generation
pip install mysql-connector-python
pip install mysql-connector-python  # MySQL database connector

🔥 VERSION 31
Implemented fully importable QR code generation on tickets 🎟️✨

Developed seamless ticket layouts integrating dynamic QR codes for fast scanning and verification.

Made the code modular and reusable wherever needed. 🧩✅

🚀 VERSION 32
Centralized Database Access Created 🗄️🔑

Developed a unified DB connection module for consistent and easy import across all Python programs.

Simplified database handling and improved maintainability. 💻🔧

💳 VERSION 33
Introduced Advanced Payment via QR Code on Payment Gateway ⚡🛡️

Integrated complex payment workflow involving three bank-side JSP programs:

uselqr.jsp, qr_codeaccept.jsp, authorize_payment.jsp

These communicate with our Flask backend via IP and port. 🌐🔌

Created new transaction table under airlines DB to capture txn_id and validate payment status dynamically. 💾✔️

Pending: Full ACID-compliant payment method processing under payment modules. 🔜🛠️

🔁 VERSION 34
Dynamic Fare Calculation from DB Implemented 📊💰

Replaced static HTML fares with dynamic backend logic fetching from airline_class_quota_fares table.

Fare calculation now smartly considers:

Origin & Destination ✈️

Travel Class & Quota 🎫

Distance 🛣️

Flight base fare adjusted by flight priority for speciality flights 🚀

Timestamp auto-update added for auditing in airlines_users:

sql
ALTER TABLE airlines_users
MODIFY COLUMN DOR TIMESTAMP NULL DEFAULT CURRENT_TIMESTAMP ON UPDATE CURRENT_TIMESTAMP;

📧 VERSION 35
User-Side Email System Launched for Ticket Booking & Cancellation 💌✅

Sent professional, grammatically polished emails for both confirmed (CNF) and cancelled (CAN) bookings.

Corrected ticket cancellation info wording on printed tickets for clarity and professionalism. 📝🎟️

✉️ VERSION 36
Enhanced Email Logic to Avoid Duplicate Sends on Refresh 🔄🚫

Prevented repeated emails on accidental browser refresh during booking or cancellation.

Fixed unknown error page on user ticket cancellation related to refunds.

Positioned email dispatch before ticket_su and ticket_can_su methods in ticket_userdb.py and user_can_ticket2.py.

Admin Side Improvements:

Added extra email field in admin booking for capturing user emails. 📩

Fetches & uses user email during admin cancellations for realistic communication. ✔️

Overall: Nearly all application issues resolved; future updates will focus on minor fixes and optimizations. 🛠️🎉

🛠️ VERSION 37
Fixed User Ticket Journey History Display on Cancellations 📜❌

Ensured cancelled tickets properly reflect in user journey history with clear status messages. ✅

Skipping detailed notes on Version 37 to proceed to next significant update.

🌟 VERSION 38
Highly Dynamic Seat Allocation Based on Flight Number, Class, Journey Date & Flight Type 🪑🔥

Introduced flight types (e.g., Boeing, Airbus) selectable by admin during flight creation, saved in flights table. 📋✈️

Advanced seat allocation logic extended to respect flight type-specific seat layouts.

Frontend restricts seat selection flow based on chosen flight type for accurate bookings. 🎯

Modified airline_sitting table: added flight_type column for seat trigger logic consistency. 🗃️

Print & Display:

Tickets now show Flight Type info along with flight charges for transparency. 🎫💡

Seat Availability Logic Improved:

seats_avl.py updated for robust seat availability checks — correctly handling switched origins and destinations. 🔄🛋️

Example:

Flight AA12AA, Class: First, Total Seats: 12

Origin: Hyderabad, Destination: New York, Date: 01/Aug/2025

Booking status now accurately reflects seat availability—even if origin/destination are swapped.

Technical Enhancements:

Refined MySQL query logic in seat availability module for precision and error-free operation. 🔍💾

Entire codebase polished and structured for maximum robustness and dynamic behavior. ✅🐍

This version represents a major milestone with zero errors, seamless integrations, and enhanced user/admin experience! 🚀👏


🆕 Version 39 & 40 Updates
🚫 Journey Date is Today—No Cancellation Allowed
Tickets with a journey date matching today’s date will not be displayed for cancellation and cannot be cancelled.

📑 Note:
To view, print, or download your ticket, please use My Journey History where you’ll find and print or view your confirmed tickets.

🔗 To View Your Confirmed Tickets:
🖨️/👀 View/Print Confirmed Tickets

💺 Dynamic Seat Availability
Seats are now dynamically checked and displayed in real-time from the database for accuracy during booking and management.

🛠️ Enhanced Admin Functionalities

Admins can now view and manage flight seats layouts dynamically based on flight type for future flights.

✈️ Admin access lets you log into the backend database to change settings like flight seats, airports, class fares, flight fares, and more—admin-only features for enhanced control!


🆕 Version 41 Update
⚠️ Critical Security Fix at Payment Gateway
Previously, the payment gateway QR code (UPI/Pay QR) was generated on the frontend (HTML/JS).
This allowed anyone to open Inspect Element → Edit QR value → Pay to their own account — breaking payment integrity. 🔓❌

🔒 Fix Implemented:
Now, sessions securely store important payment data like total fare, txn_id, transaction mode on the backend.
The QR code is generated server-side with these session values, so it cannot be tampered with via frontend inspection.

✅ Secure Payment Flow:

When the user reaches the payment page, backend saves total_fare, txn_id, and trm in session/DB.

Frontend requests /generate_payment_qr with no sensitive parameters.

Server builds and returns a secure QR as an image.

Even if a user edits HTML, the QR is always generated from backend session data, not from the frontend input.

⚡ Benefits:

Users cannot modify QR code via Inspect Element.

Payment integrity is fully protected.

Your payment status polling (check_payment_status) continues to work smoothly with secure txn_id.


Version 42 
🚀 Version 42 Updates
🛠️ Admin Side Validation:
Implemented and fixed issues where, while adding a new flight, the system now alerts the admin to check and fill in all required flight information. ⚠️✈️

🗓️ Dynamic Year Display:
Added automatic current year display for All Rights Reserved © [Year] on specific key pages:

HTML Index

User Login

Admin Login

Admin Dashboard

User Dashboard

Register Module
📌 The year is dynamically generated by the system without any manual update needed.

✈️ Flight Types from Database:
Major enhancement — flight types like Boeing 777, 747, Airbus A320, Domestic, etc., are now retrieved dynamically from the flight_types database table instead of being hardcoded in HTML.
This improves the admin page experience when adding new flights and cleans up frontend code significantly.



Version 43

⏱️ Added time management for flights operating between origin and destination, with fly time tracked in hours.

🛠️ Debugged the code and introduced a new flight_legs table to store departure, arrival timings, and fly duration.

⚡ Included 3 automatic triggers in flight_legs to handle operations like maintaining leg_sequence and calculating fly_time.

📅 Updated airline_reservation table with new columns to hold arrival_date, arrival_time, and fly_time.

🔄 Modified the necessary code for full dynamic behavior, checked issues, and corrected them.

🗂️ Added a new program guest/flight_date_hours.py that automatically adjusts the arrival date if a flight departs late (e.g., departs at 20:00 and arrives next day at 10:00).

🚀 Streamlined the flow across all modules so the entire application process runs smoothly without issues.



🚀 Version 44 Highlights
🛫 Admin Flight Addition & Airport Pair Splitting:
When an admin adds a new flight to the airline DB, selected airports are now automatically split into pairs and inserted into the airplane_fare and flight_legs tables.
➡️ Robust airport pair splitting and duplicate prevention for both tables.

💻🗂️ Manual Fare and Distance Entry:
After flight addition, admins log in to the MySQL backend to manually check the tables and enter KM distance.

💰 Fare is auto-calculated with a trigger as KM × 12 per route!

⏰👨‍✈️ Accurate Departure & Arrival Times:

Fixed missing departure/arrival time entries and reflections.

🌙 Arrival date now updates correctly for overnight flights—improved accuracy!

🔒 Controlled Database Access:
Limited access granted to airline_admins for DB table control, allowing official fare adjustments and admin actions.

🧮 SQL Query Safeguards:
In admin new_flight.py, added logic to avoid duplicate inserts into the airplane_fare table—existing airport pairs are skipped.

📋🛠️ Admin Instructions & Change Management:
Provided updated instructions to guide admins through new processes and project changes.

🕒🔍 Flight Timings Submodule:
Flight search now displays precise timings at origin (Departure) and destination (Arrival), with correct date handling if the flight crosses into the next day.

Auto-Update of Ticket Status in airline_reservation Table 🗃️✈️
Focused on the MySQL airline_reservation table fields jd (journey date) and jstatus (journey status).

Now, if the journey date (jd) is in the past, the status (jstatus) will auto-update to completed, keeping ticket status clean and consistent in the centralized database. ✅📅

If the jstatus is already cancelled, it remains unchanged to preserve cancellation records. ❌🛑

Compared to previous versions, this release is more dynamic, efficient, and powerful! ⚡🔥


Overall, this version is more enhanced and advanced! 🎉✨



🚀 Version 45

In this version, all mistakes have been corrected, including replacing terms like Airline Boarding Pass with Flight E-Ticket across all modules ✈️🎫✅



🚀 Version 46

In this version, the Flight Boarding Pass Generator module has been developed for the admin side ✈️🎫.

The admin logs in at the airport, and the concerned admin can generate a boarding pass using the PNR number for today’s and upcoming journeys only.

Fixed issues where flight types were displaying incorrectly on the admin side during ticket booking.

Fixed the issue where flights with the origin Hyderabad and destination New Delhi were showing incorrect timings and flight duration ⏱️✅.





✈️ SKA Airlines — Phase 3 🚀

Under Phase 3 of the SKA Airlines Project, there have been huge UI-related developments to improve the UX (User Experience) and add dynamic content, while maintaining our existing project logic.

This phase focuses on using:
✅ Bootstrap + Bootstrap Icons + Aviation.css (stored in static/css)
to build a modern UI that is fully compatible with all devices such as PCs, laptops, and mobile devices 📱💻🖥️.



🚀 Version 47

In this version, huge UI development has been introduced 🎨✨.

🌐 Index Side

Developed a huge UI upgrade to make the webpage look more dynamic and attractive using Bootstrap and icons ✨🎯.

Modified the instructions file and added more important information 📝✅.

🛠️ Admin Side

Improved and corrected the admin UI to make it more dynamic and responsive, compatible with all screen resolutions (PC, Laptop, Mobile) 🖥️💻📱.

Developed a dynamic UI for the Admin Boarding Pass Generation module with exact content for printing or downloading 🖨️📥🎫.

Developed logic to restrict admins from cancelling confirmed tickets if the departure time is within 30 minutes of the flight time ⏳🚫🎟️.

Admins can now generate a boarding pass only if the departure time is at least 30 minutes before the flight ✈️⏱️.

Fixed some known issues while improving the UI 🔧✅.

👤 User Side

Huge UI upgradation has been done on the user side as well 🎨✨.

Modified all user pages to look more dynamic and modern 🌟📱.

Developed a query to prevent users from cancelling tickets unless it is at least 8 hours before departure ⏳🚫🎟️.

Developed a Web Check-in Boarding Pass Generator module 🎫🧾:

Tickets are displayed in the user dashboard in webchecking_boardingpass.html

Boarding pass generation is allowed only if the departure time is between:
✅ 48 hours before departure and
✅ 30 minutes before flight departure ⏱️✈️

Added important user instruction points in the Web Check-in Boarding Pass program 📝📌.

Fixed some known issues during dynamic UI development 🔧✅.



🚀 Version 48

In this version, flight booking restrictions have been implemented ✈️⏳.

👤 Index & User Side

Flight bookings are allowed only up to 3 hours before the scheduled flight departure time ⏱️🚫.

🔁 Return Date Rule

The return flight departure date is always greater than the booking date — no issues found ✅📅.

🛠️ Admin Side

Flight bookings are allowed only up to 1 hour before the scheduled flight departure time ⏱️🚫.

🔧 Fixes & Improvements

Fixed known issues in the application:

Admin boarding pass generation time limit changed to 20 minutes before departure 🎫⏱️.

User-side boarding pass generation time limit increased to 30 minutes before departure 🎫✈️.

✅ Overall, all known issues in the application have been fixed and improved.






  --------------------------------------------- End of Changelog -----------------------------------------------------------

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

🚀 Feature Developments
🧑‍💼💻 Developed a comprehensive admin module to display all operations, including charges and flight types (flight type display is optional) Note: Admin seat updates are done directly via backend MySQL database, no dynamic UI yet(Dynamic UI is not required Optional).

🛩️📊 Flight types are now dynamically fetched from database tables during the admin’s flight addition process, enabling seamless and flexible handling. (Implemented in Version 43)

🪑📅 Managed and configured flight layouts using data from the seats_avl.py module linked with the flight layout database table. (Implemented in Versions 39 & 40)
⚠️ Note: Admin seat updates are done directly via backend MySQL database, no dynamic UI yet(Dynamic UI no need).

⏰✈️ Implemented and maintained accurate flight timings for departure and arrival schedules Done in Version 43&44.

💳🔐 (Optional) Integrated user-side payment gateway supporting payment_mode=ACID for robust, transactional payment processing.
